[MUSIC]
This week,
we're going to focus on gathering information and visuals that help support ideas,
concepts, and statistics that are more effective than words and numbers alone.
Our objectives will be to learn how to support
messages with research and quality information,
evaluate the process for disseminating this information,
and we'll learn how visuals can be part of
the support needed to further clarify messages.
Let's go back in time and reflect on the notion that much of writing is thinking,
but thoughts and ideas stand alone without some support.
Credible information comes in many forms and as good business communicators,
we need to know where to obtain these treasures of information.
Among the characteristics of good writing and specifically report writing is making sure
your information is factually correct and includes
all the necessary support for all your key assertions.
In most cases, information should be
balanced if it is to present all sides of an argument.
It should be clear and logical,
as well as properly documented if credit is given to
all primary and secondary sources of information used.
Primary sources are essentially those which are conducted by yourself,
like initiating a survey or compiling data.
It can also be primary research conducted by others.
Secondary research is that which is written about by others.
Let's think of it this way.
If you write about an original research study,
you're the source of secondary research here.
It's your interpretation of an original study,
a primary source of research that makes for a secondary source.
When you read a newspaper,
please take note of how reporters often cite evidence in the form of original research.
This gives the author credibility and often helps support an assertion.
Now that we understand what types of research are out there,
let's contemplate the process of gathering this vital information.
I'd like you to pause for a moment though,
and realize as you look at this chart that it's going to take some time.
Research and gathering information is time consuming.
It's not something you want to rush into either,
because the amount of time spent in
this discovery stage of writing results in a superior product.
It's like having all the quality ingredients ready when you bake or cook something,
when you've taken the time to research and gather
the right ingredients and have them assembled in order of use,
the baking and cooking process moves like a dream,
and the product is particularly high quality as a result.
Plus, it's more fun. The first stage is planning your research.
It's a good idea to make this part of your outline,
and you can even turn your writing outline into a research outline.
One way to do this is to make notes to yourself in
specific areas of the outline where support is needed and so on.
The next stage is finding the information,
contemplate if you're going to have to peruse files,
interview people, obtain copies of data and so on.
This is a good time to list the areas of information gathering you'll need to address.
Timing is critical here,
because once you've assembled your list,
some sources of information may take longer to obtain,
so you'll want to move those to the top of the to do list.
Please keep track of your research and a log outline or on your computer.
Again, make notes to yourself because once you walk away from this experience,
it's too easy to forget where you've been and
where you'll need to go once you return to the process.
After you've planned your research and where to obtain it,
identify and decide how it's going to present itself in your work.
There are three options,
paraphrase, summarize, or quote.
If you paraphrase short bits of information,
put it in your own words,
a summary is in your own words as well,
but mostly addresses the volume of information or an entire document.
Quoting is when you take items word for word from
a document or it's quoted directly from a person stating something.
Quotation marks indicate where the statement starts and finishes.
For good writing, be sure your quote enhances what you've
presented and doesn't merely repeat what's been stated.
Quotes should have energy,
and they should have meaning,
numbers and statistics should also have relevance.
Once you've gathered your information and made notes,
it's time to draw conclusions based on the research you've done.
Think in terms of a research paper here,
as business communication is just as heavily research based.
Business reports and letters,
memos and emails may not have the formality and length of a research paper,
but they are just as needy when it comes to quality information gathering.
Lastly, manage your information.
Collect your research,
and share it through a medium appropriate for the message.
If your research has discovered a potential solution to a problem,
consider the stakeholders and how you might disseminate your valuable conclusions.
Before we leave our chat about research,
please take time to review your textbook about important resources for
business research and get familiar with the online and print resources available to you.
Everyone loves pictures.
Visuals create interest,
illustrate and clarify important points,
and add variety to any kind of presentation,
whether it's a PowerPoint or a formal written report.
Visuals help listeners and readers absorb information more quickly.
As you contemplate the design of a visual element consider color,
artwork, photographs, type faces,
and type styles and also consider consistency.
Color is a critical design element because it can emphasize ideas,
create contrast, and emphasize certain elements.
As you can see by this chart,
color can actually provide a powerful nonverbal component to your message.
According to Bowie and Phil,
a palette of cool grays and blue says
something different than a palette of warm oranges and browns,
which say something different than a palette of hot pink and lime green.
If you want to excite your audience and stimulate certain emotions,
this table suggests warm colors such as red and orange in your visual.
If a more relaxed tone is intended,
then blue is a better choice.
In Western culture, this works.
But if we reflect to week one,
cultural considerations with regard to
color use might be appropriate depending on your audience.
Artwork is another consideration for visuals,
we can consider artwork to be a functional or decorative feature of writing visuals.
Functional artwork can be photographs, technical drawings,
charts, and other visual elements with information that's part of your message.
Even infographics can be dynamic and value
added choices for presenting valuable information.
Decorative artwork and photographs create emotional tone or amplify a message,
particularly with free-form presentation slides.
This is helpful when the writer wants
a high impact message that will be easier to remember than text.
There is a lot of clip art and easily available artwork for use in slides.
But please be sure it's relevant and merely not just decorative without a purpose.
Artistic elements should convey a message and avoid a cartoony appearance,
as it's not usually considered professional.
Again, audience analysis becomes an important part of including artistic elements.
Color and artwork are visual elements, for sure.
But font size and style is also critical.
You'll want to consider the brand you're maintaining when deciding on a font style.
Branding is an important facet to business communications,
and savvy businesses ensure their brand is reflected throughout
the organization even in font style used in correspondence.
Readers assign meaning to visual elements immediately,
whether it's a PowerPoint slide or a report cover.
Be consistent and don't use too many different fonts.
In fact, if you want to achieve variety,
use the same font,
but change the size or boldface or underline items because
this can also provide effective variety without confusing the reader.
Clearly, size is an important consideration for font.
You'll want it to be readable from afar if it's a screen presentation,
and large enough in print so that one can read it comfortably.
For most business correspondents,
12 point font is standard.
We've discussed research and visual elements this week.
In discussion you'll conduct a hunt for original research in a news article,
and we'll also share our favorite online sources for research,
which proves to be a great way to share exceptional sites.
Let's engage in discussion early often and weave
those all important course concepts from your textbook into those connections.
You may even want to introduce outside research
into your own analysis to add energy to the learning community.
For your writing assignment,
you'll be expected to create your own visual elements
using the six principles of graphic design.
You may need to do a little research on your own for this assignment.
In week 4, we learn to support messages with quality research and information,
as well as understand the use of visuals to further support our assertions.
We also explore the dissemination of this valuable information [MUSIC].